---
layout: post
title: two months in Dalat
tags: travel dalat vietnam
---

{% responsive_image path:"assets/images/2020-07-05-dalat1.JPG" alt:"a love letter to Dalat" %}

Hailing from suburban San Diego, I longed for the big city life: somewhere where I could be an anonymous blip lost in a colorful blur of souls; somewhere where I could watch the world go by.

When I visited Shanghai, I was dazzled by the hyper-urban metropolis. I felt simultaneously energized and overwhelmed by the immensity of the city. There was always something to do; people rushing here and there, off and on the metro; hot pot chains open till 4am - a city teeming with life every waking moment. In February when Shanghai went under lockdown, the quiet was strikingly surreal.

As of today, July 4th, I've been in Dalat, Vietnam for nearly two months. And still, every day I continue to be blown away by how lovely, how calm, Dalat is. Perhaps it's another dream of mine to live somewhere by a lake and a forest, and perhaps that's what Dalat is for me - a beautiful dream.

I could spend hours looking at the views from my current studio (and yes, I do do that sometimes!). On some days the sky is the clearest blue, with grand, dramatic clouds lazily drifting by; other mornings, I wake up to rain pelting the rooftops - the coziest feeling when one doesn't have any plans to go out. In the evenings, sometimes a hazy fog rolls in through the valley, blanketing everything in white.

Here in Dalat, life seems simple and relaxed. It's a small big city. Or perhaps a big small city. Wikipedia puts the population at about 410,000. The cool, temperate weather is a welcome reprieve from the heat of most other cities in Vietnam, making it an attractive destination, and every weekend, Vietnam's "Little Paris" sees flocks of domestic tourists. There are no large freeways, no sprawling shopping malls, no towering skyscrapers, no Amazon delivery trucks. People are always "chilling" - hanging out at cafes, jamming and creating music with friends in the park, getting high together.

It's by far the coziest place I've ever been, with plethoras of cute coffeeshops lining every possible street with a good view. And I think about that - every cafe, restaurant, hostel was, is, someone's dream to build up.

"Definitely an escape destination", my friend from back home commented when I spoke of Dalat. Reluctantly, I felt inclined to agree. Constrained by notions of practicality and realism, I tell myself, /this is temporary/. But I wonder why? It's not out of the realms of possibility for someone like me to live here forever. I could learn Vietnamese, get a motorbike, figure out a job here (but not teaching English), enjoy the rest of my life chilling and appreciating the beauty of Dalat. Right...? Haha.

Even if I don't live in Dalat forever, Dalat has reminded me to slow down, that sometimes it's okay to just *be*. Well, both Dalat and the ongoing global pandemic. If it weren't for COVID-19, I'm certain I wouldn't be in Dalat right now. Years down the road, I'll think of Dalat fondly. It's funny how things go when you just go with it, isn't it?
